# SUMMARY
analysis of BALB/c CD45+ bone marrow treated with IL-18-secreting CAR T-cells, and analysis of myeloma-stimulated APRIL CAR T cells in vitro +/- engineered IL-18 secretion

## Ng et al. (2024) IL-18-secreting multi-antigen targeting CAR T-cells eliminate antigen-low myeloma in an immunocompetent mouse model (https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.2023022293)

### Multiple myeloma is a plasma cell malignancy that is currently incurable with conventional therapies. Following the success of CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells in leukemia and lymphoma, CAR T-cells targeting B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) more recently demonstrated impressive activity in relapsed and refractory myeloma patients. However, BCMA-directed therapy can fail due to low expression of BCMA on myeloma cells, suggesting that novel approaches to better address antigen-low disease may improve patient outcomes. We hypothesized that engineered secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL-18) and multi-antigen targeting could improve CAR T-cell activity against BCMA-low myeloma. In a syngeneic murine model of myeloma, CAR T-cells targeting the myeloma-associated antigens BCMA and B-cell activating factor (BAFF-R) failed to eliminate myeloma when these antigens were weakly expressed. In contrast, IL-18-secreting CAR T-cells targeting these antigens promoted myeloma clearance. IL-18-secreting CAR T-cells developed an effector-like T-cell phenotype, promoted interferon-gamma production, reprogrammed the myeloma bone marrow microenvironment through type I and II interferon signaling, and utilized macrophages to mediate anti-myeloma activity. Simultaneous targeting of weakly expressed BCMA and BAFF-R with dual-CAR T-cells enhanced T-cell:target cell avidity, increased overall CAR signal strength, and stimulated anti-myeloma activity. Dual-antigen targeting augmented CAR T-cell secretion of engineered IL-18 and facilitated elimination of larger myeloma burdens in vivo. Our results demonstrate that combination of engineered IL-18 secretion and multi-antigen targeting can eliminate myeloma with weak antigen expression through distinct mechanisms.

<hr>

This repository includes Jupyter notebooks adapted from the [shunPykeR](https://github.com/kousaa/shunPykeR) GitHub repository and have been modified for this particular analysis.

Processed data to be used with these notebooks have been deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) under accession code:[GSE261852](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE261852) and [GSE246682](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE246682).
